---
layout: post
title: Ignition Day 1 - 1000 Startup Digital Bandung HELLO WORLD
---

### Introduction

1000StartupDigital is an event where all the creative and innovative people gather to solve any problems spesifically related to our country, Indonesia. It has several development stages and one of them is Ignition Day.<br />

Ignition Day is an event where the participants will get some learning methods from several successfull startup founders. From this event, the participants are expected to understand the true mindset for becoming a startup founder. On this article, I will explain about my experience and what I have learnt from Ignition Day 1. 
 

## 5 Key Elements for Successful Startup Founder

Being a startup founder is hard enough. You need strong consistency and persistence.<br />

However, there are several things that can be used as your starting point, namely:

-----

### Entrepreneurial mindset

There are so many problems around us and we have two options, namely complaining about them or trying to find the solutions.<br />

If we choose the first option, we will be just waiting for the others to solve the problems. It actually shows that we let the problems grow bigger as we can not find any solutions that can be used to predict the problems pattern.<br />

If we choose the latter option, we simply show that we care enough to create a better life for our community. We choose to move and offer a better solution so that our community could overcome the problems in more effective way. It also makes a highly fast development as we offer something new to others. Moreover, we create many opportunites for other people to join with us in solving our community problems.

-----

### Building entrepreneurial ecosystem

If we want to create solutions, we do need a supportive environment. One way to achieve that is through a good networking. We should be able to work together with another entrepreneurs so that we can learn something new from them and vice versa. This environment should contain a mutual relation among entrepreneurs as they will colaborate with each others to create one or more solutions.<br />

Another way to build an entrepreneurial ecosystem is through our own mindset. We should be able to break the old rules in which we do not feel right about them. We should offer a new way to give something that can make other people's works be more effective. They need solutions for they problem, so we must set the solutions as the primary goal. Our primary focus here is to study the problems that annoy our community and then try to find a match solution.<br />
   
-----

### Don't start a business, solve a problem

As a founder, we should focus to the problems and the solutions for them. The main key point here is we can choose one existing problem that annoys the community. From that problem, try to find a solution in a creative way. Just try to create something that can ease people works.

----- 

### Innovating with creativity

One of the important thing if we want to bring our startup to the top rank is innovation. There are many existing solutions in various methods for one problem. We do need to offer something that has not been provided yet in the existing solutions. We must have a strong characteristic so that people can recognize our solutions.

-----

### How to think like a founder

As stated before, you need strong consistency and persistence if you want to become a founder. It does not enough if we only have great skills yet we can not create a good plan for our startup. A founder must have a good long term plan management skill. The first step is to find a problem and solve it. If it has already been developed successfully, try to implement the long term plan so that they can offer more innovations.<br />

So, the primary point is as a founder you need to always find a problem and solve it. Being a problem solver is the key to become a successfull startup founder. 
